Welcome to the algorithm's section this is a word that immediately just sounds nice right.
All the companies are using it these days to sound like they're doing something really really important.
Everybody has a secret algorithm that they use to make machine learning models analyze user data make
companies lots of money.
But underneath the hood algorithms are just functions that programmers write a two line function is
technically an algorithm a thousand line algorithm that sorts through images is also an algorithm.
Algorithms are simply steps in a process that we take to perform a desired action with computers.
If we go to Wikipedia and search lists of algorithms the list is pretty endless.
There are a lot of algorithms.
It's impossible to know all of them.
You can create your own algorithms you can use other algorithms that are popular and well established.
But let's get back to our question of what are algorithms.
If we combine our knowledge of data structures the ones that we worked on in the previous sections algorithms
allow us to use language built in data structures like arrays and objects or primitives such as integers
and booleans and even custom datatypes like we did when we use the class keyword to create stacks cue's
binary search trees.
Algorithms allow us to use these data structures to perform actions on that data.
Remember this right data structures and algorithms create programs in this course.
We're going to talk about the most common interview algorithms so that long list on Wikipedia won't
be as intimidating because we're only going to focus on the want that matter especially for interviews
but also the ones that matter most in your career specifically we're going to go over these topics when
it comes to algorithms.
Now why are these algorithms so common in interviews and especially in big companies.
Well you can get away with not knowing these topics for a long time.
As a programmer but as we have learned big-O and scalability of code is important as companies get larger
and larger by learning these listed algorithms.
We're able to do majority of the scaling we need to improve our programs.
Remember our big-O Chichi and how we haven't really talked about oh log and O N log and maybe a little
bit in the previous videos.
CERN algorithms allow us to simplify our big O complexity into smaller or better time complexity.
So that by using the right algorithm I could take a function that has a big show of this notation down
to something of O and log in or something that has a linear time complexity to o log event.
And these are used everywhere in large companies because large companies handle lots of inputs lots
of data.
So this topic is extremely important to them and as your career grows and grows these topics will be
more and more importantly.
So let's dive in to our first topic.
I'll see in the next one.
Babai.